PyCity Schools Analysis Report


PyCity Schools Analysis is based on school data to better determine if their budgets are serving them well and to better determine future budget needs.


The School Summary output indicated that a higher student budget doesn't always equate to higher scores from the students. 
School District, Bailey High School has the highest total school budget for its 4,976 students totaling $3,214,938.00. ($628.00 per student)
Their average passing math percentage and their overall passing percentage are some of the lowest percentages in the School Summary data frame.
Charter School, Wilson High School has one of the lower school budgets totaling, $1,319,574.00 for its 2,283 students. ($578.00 per student)
However, Wilson High School has one of the highest passing math percentages and one of the highest overall passing percentages in the data frame.

According to the Scores by School Size data frame, Charter schools have the highest scores across all categories.  
Cabrera High School has 1,858 students and Griffin High School has 1,468 students. 
These two schools have average budgets per student compared to the other school districts in this data frame and yet their overall passing scores are much higher.

According to the Scores by School Size data frame:
Charter schools have smaller class sizes while some Districts have nearly double the number of students.
School District, Bailey High School has the highest number of students (4,976 total students) and the lowest overall passing percentage of 54.6%.
Charter school, Griffin High School has the lowest number of students (1,468 total students) and the highest overall passing percentage of 90.5%.
The difference between these two schools and their overall passing percentage is 65.5%.
According to this data, I would say that the smaller the class size, the higher the scores are from the students.

According to the Scores by School Type:
The Scores by School Type data frame displayed similar findings:
Charter school's overall passing percentage is 90.43%
District school's overall passing percentage is 53.6%
The difference between their overall passing percentages is 41.6%

According to these two categories and calculations, I feel it is safe to say that Charter schools on average have better-performing students despite lower budgets compared to large school districts.
